Steve's Library for Turbo-C.

1-29-88:
Turbo-C Version 1.5 has arrived, and problems have arisen.  Borland
has committed (in my opinion) an unpardonable sin in messing with
the "standard" console facilities.  As a result, many (not all)
functions in my Version 1.30 library WILL NOT WORK with the Turbo-C 1.5
libraries.  Oh, they compile and link just fine;  they just don't
execute worth squat!  So, this release, Version 1.31, is an interim
release that wasn't supposed to happen right now.  Version 1.40 is
still in the works for March of 1988.

Here's what you got:
If this is a shareware distribution or a "small" registration:
   You have all docs, utilities, and the Small memory model library
     compiled for Turbo-C 1.5 ONLY.  Many functions will still work
     with version 1.0 (especially the direct video stuff), so if you
     like this library, please register and you'll get the 1.0
     compatible libraries.

If this is a purchased (full-source) distribution:
   You will have three disks:
     Disk #1 is as above.  This is the disk which you may share with others.
     Disk #2 is the extra libraries (for V1.5) and all the source code,
       plus the batch files and library response files to remake the
       libraries if you really want to go to the effort.
     Disk #3 is the compiled libraries for V1.0, which you should use
       instead of the libraries on the other disks IF you are NOT using
       Turbo-C Version 1.5.

This 3-disk support for V1.0 will terminate not earlier than April 15th, 1988.
However, no new functions or enhancements will be added to the V1.0 library
files.  All new development will be for V1.5.  It is simply not practical
to support multiple versions of the same compiler.  If Kahn's gang was
a little more interested in compatibility, this situation would not
occur.  Usually, a new compiler release does not render useless functions
compiled under earlier versions.

If you have any problems in this transition period, please let me know
via Compuserve EMAIL or GEnie, or U.S. Mail.  (Please, no phone calls.)

The file SMLIBTC.DOC should be printed out.  This will
give directions for printing further documentation on each
function, and installation of the library.

If you have received the full source registration, please also
printout the file RELINK.DOC.

In release 1.31 of this library, the file WC.EXE will now accept
wildcard filenames, although the manual does not yet indicate this.

S.E. Margison     01-29-88
