\fBLittle Smalltalk Installation Notes\fP
.sp
.NH
Installation Notes
.PP
There are four basic steps involved in installing the Little Smalltalk
system.  The four steps are; unbundling the sources, editing the sources to
tailor them to the target installation, compiling the sources, and moving
the final binary to the local executables directory.  Each of these four
steps are described in following paragraphs and in succeeding sections.
.ds RF \(DY
.PP
As distributed, the Little Smalltalk source consists of a small number of
files in ``bundle'' format.  A shell script, \fBunbundle\fP, is provided
that creates the various subdirectories used by the system and unbundles
the distribution files into their component parts.  To execute this shell
script, type, in a directory containing all the files in the distribution,
the following command:
.DS I
sh unbundle
.DE
.LP
A large amount of output should follow, indicating files have been
unbundled into subdirectories /sources, /parser, /prelude, /tests, /docs
and /bin.
.PP
There are a small number of editing changes required to tailor the system to
various different environments.  Section 2 describes these changes in detail for
various types of machines and operating systems.
.PP
Once the necessary tailoring has been performed, the system can then be
compiled by typing the command:
.DS I
make install
.DE
.LP
in the base directory (the original directory from which the source was
unbundled).  This command will then invoke further make commands which
produce the parser, the executable system, and the standard prelude.
In addition various self checks for correctness are provided.  Should it be
necessary, various subcomponents of the system can be individually produced
by typing the ``make install'' commands in the appropriate subdirectory.
These commands produce a considerable amount of output.
.PP
Once the system has been compiled and successfully passed all self tests,
the executable file in /bin/st should be linked or moved to the appropriate
location for local executables on the target system.
Finally, the object files for all compilations can be removed by typing
``make clean''.